In the previous section,
you already got a taste for
how aggregating data works in KSQL when you saw how we can apply windowing.
Now, we're going to dive a little deeper into aggregation in this section.
Group By's are another very useful form of aggregation.
The output of a Group By in KSQL is always a table.
Why is that? Well, let's think a bit about
how a Group By works in a traditional SQL database.
We're asking the database to take a particular attribute such as currency in the on
screen example,and then perform some aggregation related to that attribute.
So here we're summing by amount and grouping by currency.
This aggregation here, of sum and amount,
this aggregation implies state.
The on screen examples,
perfect example of this.
We're keeping track by currency the sum of all purchase amounts.
In this example, we're taking a series of
incoming events and creating a table with a currency key,
and then continually updating the values for that key.
Once we've aggregated our data,
KSQL provides a number of useful aggregation functions.
You've already seen the sum function,
but KSQL provides a number of other useful functions such as histogram,
max and min, count,top k and more.
Check the course notes for more information.
For example, we might want to bucket purchase amounts into a histogram so
we can see a distribution of
purchases relative to some metric we may be measuring internally.
In the example on screen though,
what we're saying is we want to group by currency,
and then for each currency code,
keep account of how many times we've seen it occur.
Or we might want to keep track of
the top 10 most expensive purchases by value in the last hour.
To do that, we could use the top k function and specify a tumbling window of one hour.